For this first exercise, we're going to
demonstrate how to
take a set of data, and structure it as a
list.
So what you're looking at in front of you
is a set of student names, and a test
score.
We have, Raymond 92, Cynthia 83, [UNKNOWN]
64, and so on, If this was an advance
exercise, we'd be looking how to access
this
data, from the file that it's stored in.
But we haven't gotten that far yet, so
we're just going to
have to see how to enter this data
manually into a list.
So let's open up Python.
Let's open the shell and so what we want
to
do is we want to name this list something
so we'll
call it grades, and what we're going to do
is
we're going to take each name store it as
a string.
And then store the test grade as a number
or integer.
Now what's important is you have to make
sure that you do a couple things.
First you have to make sure that, each
name is
surrounded in quotes, either a single
quote or a double quote.
I'm using single quotes here.
And you also have to make sure that each
grade, is separated from a name by the
comma.
We'll have to continue this on the next
line and that's not a problem.
Again, just making sure that we get our
strings
and our numbers correct and that commas
separate each one.
And there's our list.
So the way we can access this list is that
we can assume that each.
Pair is one record, if you want to call it
that.
So, Raymond goes with 92, Cynthia goes
with 83, [UNKNOWN] goes with 64.
So, for example, if I want to see Raymond
and
his grade, I can type, and then you can
catenate.
But I get an error, the error says cannot
concatenate string and int objects.
I did that on purpose, partly because I
need to start showing you how
errors look, because you're going to be
running into them as you learn Python.
And second, I wanted to bring up a
point that you cannot concatenate strings
and ints.
In some of the lessons in this exercise
I've used concatenation
but it;s always been with groups or with
string by themselves.
Here you see a problem that we can't
concatenate an ent with a string.
So grade subzero is a string and grade
subone is an ent.
So what we'd have to do is if we wanted to
display these, we have to say grades sub
zero, for the name and then there's a
function
called str that then returns the integer
as a string.
And that's how we would pull that out.
So if we wanted to see a different pair,
we
could say grades sub two plus string
grades of three.
And we'll see Cynthia and her test score.
Now notice those are bumped right next to
each other.
I'm not gonna get into how to separate
them now.
There several different ways you can put a
space between them.
One thing we can do this, I'll go ahead
and show you one example.
We could concatenate the space right
there.
And that's probably the easiest way to do
it, like that.
Well, we'll be working with strings more,
and we'll be looking
at examples of how to format things later
in the course.
Here, I just wanted to demonstrate how to
create a
list data structure and put some
structured data into that list.
But having done that, we actually bring up
a point that needs to be made, is that
this data is actually better structured
for a
dictionary because we have the name and a
grade.
The name is a key, and the grade is a
value, so if we stored this data as a
dictionary.
Then it would be much easier to retrieve a
grade with
the name than it was in the example I
showed you here.
So let's move on to the next exercise of
this chapter where we're going to do
just that, we're going to take this set of
data and store it in a dictionary.